Progress Report
- Increment 1 -
Group #14

1) Team Members
- Kian Haghighi (FSU ID: kh21e, GitHub ID: KianHaghighi)
- Dominic Miller (FSU ID: dgm21, Github ID: Dominic-Miller)
- Edwin Laguerre (FSU ID: el21l, Github ID: Edwinlaguerre)
- Ilya Kogan (FSU ID: ik22g, Github ID: kogan782)

2) Project Title and Description
- Stock Market Trading Bot
- The idea behind this project is to develop a web application where users can go in and create their 
  own portfolio of stocks from a handful of available options to be traded by a ML bot. The bot will 
  track 1 minute tickers of the stock data and day trade based on the assumption a stock will always 
  fall back to its mean price (if a stock deviates too much from its mean buy/sell that stock). Run a 
  simulation on this data and portfolio contents over the previous year and see what the earnings would 
  have looked like.

3) Accomplishments and overall project status during this increment
- 1. User Authentication and Registration: A basic HTML webpage was created as a demo for our frontend
  and a nice user authentication method was implemented to allow users to create login information.
  This stands around 20% done compared to our initial scope and functionality proposed. We have a long
  way to go with implementing a portfolio selection algorithm for all users.
- 2. Real-Time Market Data: Real-time market data was found and a python program was created which allows
  a user to implement the ticker for the stock they are interested in along with the start and end date 
  ranges. This function returns all of the data for that stock with each minute ticker within the date
  range. This is fully implemented 100% how we wanted it in our initial scope. We will be able to use this
  to automatically save csvs for a variety of differnt stocks and allow our trading bot amazing data to be 
  trained on.
- 3. GitHub: During this increment, the bulk of our time was spent planning and developing our GitHub so we
  are prepared for the future increments. We have a bulk of issues in the backlog which allows us a good framework
  to develop in increments 2 & 3. This is how we initially planned our project to go and we believe this is as 
  functional as it needs to be for the future of our project.
- 4. Web layout: When working on this increment, HTML and Django was used to create a layout of what the 
  user will see on the webpage. Provides a framework on how to implement CSS to style HTML elements, to 
  make it more user friendly. The webpage be what the user see's and how they interact with trades with the
  ML-trading bot.

4) Challenges, changes in the plan and scope of the project and things that went wrong during this increment

- 1. Finding Data: As displayed through the commits metadata, finding data took the bulk of this 
  increment for the backend. We began with yahoo finance data but quickly realized this would not be
  good enough since so many minute tickers were missing. We found a new API called tiingo which many
  hedge funds use and developed a program to pull any trading data we wanted for any given range. This
  is great, however since model training takes so long we now realize we will likely not be able to have
  as large of a catalog of options as we once hoped. 
- 2. User Authentication: A lot of work went into creating a program which allows users to authenticate
  their login information and create an account. This is not something any of us have done before so this
  was a challenge. However, we implemented it how we hoped and believe this will help us in the coming
  increments.
- 3. Programming Languages: A lot of thought went into how we will connect the backend with the frontend. 
  We originally hoped to implement C++ into our project since this is the langauge we are all taught at FSU,
  however we now realize that this will be much more difficult and we will stick to Python for the backend  
  since it connects much nicer with the frontend.
- 4. Web Page: Time was spent thinking about how to design the web page to make it more user friendly. Since
  HTML and CSS are tools that haven't been used often in our curriculum, there is a bit of a learning curve
  as to how to implement it the best way possible, where it is easy for the user to understand.

5) Team Member Contribution for this increment
Please list each individual member and their contributions to each of the deliverables in this
increment (be as detailed as possible). In other words, describe the contribution of each team
member to:
a) the progress report, including the sections they wrote or contributed to
b) the requirements and design document, including the sections they wrote or contributed to
c) the implementation and testing document, including the sections they wrote or contributed to
d) the source code (be detailed about which parts of the system each team member contributed to
and how)
e) the video or presentation

- Dominic Miller: A) Wrote the description of our project, accomplishment this increment,
  challenges faced in this increment, and plans for our next increment for the progrss report 
  document. B) Contributed to the layout of the requirements and design document along with the 
  functional and non-functional requirements gathering. C) Wrote the use of Python in our project
  along with the use of Tiingo, our financial market API. D) Set up the GitHub layout and created a 
  group of issues that need to be addressed in this project. Found the ticker data for a handful of 
  stocks that will be useful in training our model and began developing the trading bot's backend. 
  Developed a function that allows a user to input a ticker name and date range and returns all 1-minute 
  ticker data for that range and automatically saves it as a csv to our files. E) Did the introduction, 
  the description and demo for the backend of our project, the changes in scope during this increment, 
  and the plans for next increment for the video.

- Kian Haghighi: A)Documented the struggles of combining Django with the HTMl templates for a functional front-end, planned how the front-end 
and back-end will work together B) Wrote sections 1,2,3,6 of the Software Requirements and Design Document C) Wrote about Django in the 
implementation and design document in the "5-develop-web-app" branch
D)Wrote the Django code and set up the virtual environment E)Discussed the front-end in the video

- Edwin Laguerre: A)Did not write much on the progress report besides the anwers to this question B)Helped when discussing how we were gonna go
about the design and what features will be added C) Did not write anything in the implementation and testing document since I have yet to 
implement any code D) I have yet to add anything to the source code E) Talked about the models we were going to use within our code for specific
parts and functionality 

- Ilya Kogan: A) Talked about some of the challenges on the front-end side of things, and discussed some
  of the tools used such as HTML and CSS. Discussed how CSS will be implemented into the next increment and 
  how it offer a more presentable layout for the user. B) Discussed in the overview how users will interact with 
  the trading bot and how it will be implemented. C) Discussed how HTML was used to interact with Django for 
  the webpage layout, and provided a foundation to how it will displayed. D) Focused on the front-end 
  side of things, created a Template folder that stores the HTML file that interacts with Django. Will 
  display to users market trends and trades that can be made. E) Described what the HTML file does and 
  how it interacts with Django, and displayed the webpage where a user can interact with a trading bot
  to see trends through a web interface.

6) Plans for the next increment
- In the next increment, we plan on fully implementing the backend for this project. This will include 
  writing all the code needed to train our ML bots and actually training our models so that when we
  finish our web application, we can simply connect the backend to this application and the simulations
  will run based on user input. We also plan to create the framework for our web application, like the user
  authentication, so once we get to increment 3 we can begin working immediately. For the front-end we will
  brush up on the display to make it more easier for the user to enter in data as well as display it. CSS will
  be implemented to HTML templates to control the presentation and layout of webpage offered.

7) Link to video
https://youtu.be/Y0Ba4BHlwGY
